NOTICE.md, before:

# Notices for Eclipse Project for JACC

This content is produced and maintained by the Eclipse Project for JACC project.

* Project home: https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/ee4j.jacc

## Trademarks

Eclipse Project for JACC is a trademark of the Eclipse Foundation.

## Copyright

All content is the property of the respective authors or their employers. For
more information regarding authorship of content, please consult the listed
source code repository logs.

## Declared Project Licenses

This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms
of the Eclipse Public License v. 2.0 which is available at
http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0. This Source Code may also be made
available under the following Secondary Licenses when the conditions for such
availability set forth in the Eclipse Public License v. 2.0 are satisfied: GNU
General Public License, version 2 with the GNU Classpath Exception which is
available at https://www.gnu.org/software/classpath/license.html.

SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0 OR GPL-2.0 WITH Classpath-exception-2.0

## Source Code

The project maintains the following source code repositories:

* https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jacc

## Third-party Content

## Cryptography

Content may contain encryption software. The country in which you are currently
may have restrictions on the import, possession, and use, and/or re-export to
another country, of encryption software. BEFORE using any encryption software,
please check the country's laws, regulations and policies concerning the import,
possession, or use, and re-export of encryption software, to see if this is
permitted.

Commit message:

#25 Change project name to Jakarta Authorization
Signed-off-by: arjantijms <arjan.tijms@gmail.com>

NOTICE.md, after:

# Notices for Jakarta Authorization

This content is produced and maintained by the Jakarta Authorization project.

* Project home: https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/ee4j.jacc

## Trademarks

Jakarta Authorization is a trademark of the Eclipse Foundation.

## Copyright

All content is the property of the respective authors or their employers. For
more information regarding authorship of content, please consult the listed
source code repository logs.

## Declared Project Licenses

This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms
of the Eclipse Public License v. 2.0 which is available at
http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0. This Source Code may also be made
available under the following Secondary Licenses when the conditions for such
availability set forth in the Eclipse Public License v. 2.0 are satisfied: GNU
General Public License, version 2 with the GNU Classpath Exception which is
available at https://www.gnu.org/software/classpath/license.html.

SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0 OR GPL-2.0 WITH Classpath-exception-2.0

## Source Code

The project maintains the following source code repositories:

* https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jacc

## Third-party Content

## Cryptography

Content may contain encryption software. The country in which you are currently
may have restrictions on the import, possession, and use, and/or re-export to
another country, of encryption software. BEFORE using any encryption software,
please check the country's laws, regulations and policies concerning the import,
possession, or use, and re-export of encryption software, to see if this is
permitted.
