spec/src/main/asciidoc/chapters/1_overview.adoc, before:

== Overview

This specification defines a contract between Jakarta EE containers and authorization 
policy modules such that container authorization functionality can be provided as 
appropriate to suit the operational environment.

=== Introduction

The contract defined by this specification is divided into three subcontracts. Taken 
together, these subcontracts describe the installation and configuration of 
authorization providers such that they will be used by containers in performing their access
decisions. The three subcontracts are the <<a173>>, <<a232>>, and the <<a556>>.

[#fig:001] 
[[a76]]
image::authz-1.svg[caption="Figure {doc-part}-{counter:figure} ", reftext="Figure {doc-part}-{figure}", title="Policy Configuration and Enforcement Subcontracts", align="center"]

=== Terminology

[frame=none]
[grid=none]
[cols="20%,80%",options="noheader"] 
|===
2+| *Jakarta EE application*

| | A collection of Jakarta EE modules that must share a common principal-to-role-mapping

2+| *deploy (e.g. an application)*

| | The sequence of operations comprised of _completing the declaration_ of an application or module’s dependencies on
container facilities, _binding the declared dependencies_ to specific
mechanisms or features of an operational environment, _installing or distributing_ 
the application software and related configuration
information to one or more application servers, and _activating_ the
software such that it is available to service requests.

2+| *undeploy (e.g. an application)*

| | The combined process of _stopping_ an application and then _removing_ the software and configuration information
corresponding to the application or a module of the application from one or more application servers.

2+| *redeploy (e.g. a module of an application)*

| | The _repackaging_ of an application or module
to accommodate modification of implementation and or of declared
dependencies and or of the binding of declared dependencies to
mechanisms, combined with _undeploying_ a corresponding module or
application, followed by _redistribution_ and _activation_ of the modified
software and or configuration.

2+| *grant*

| | The act of assigning to entities the right to
perform a set of activities that is the subject of an authorization
decision (that is, a permission).

2+| *hostname*

| | The name of a logical host of an application
server, as may be used in the composition of a servlet policy context
identifier.


2+| [[a90]] *JAAS Policy interface*

| | The `javax.security.auth.Policy` abstract class.

2+| [[a92]] *JAAS Policy provider*

| | An instance of a class that implements the JAAS Policy interface.

2+| *permission*

| | Represents a set of activities (a set of one or more operations on some set of
one or more resources) that is the target of an authorization decision.

2+| *Policy Context*

| | The collection of policy statements within a
policy provider that effect access to the resources of one or more
deployed modules.

2+| *Policy Context Identifier*

| | A unique string value that identifies the
collection of policy statements corresponding to a policy context within
a policy provider.

2+| *policy statement*

| | A representation of the circumstances under
which the set of activities represented by a permission are to be
authorized.

2+| *excluded policy statement*

| | A representation of the decision not to
authorize a set of activities represented by a permission independent of
factors that might otherwise effect the outcome of the decision.

2+| *unchecked policy statement*

| | A representation of the decision to authorize
a set of activities represented by a permission independent of factors
that might otherwise effect the outcome of the decision.

2+| *principal*

| a| . (Java) A security attribute acquired as a result of authentication by entities that perform activities.
. An entity that performs activities.

2+| *principal-to-role mapping*

| | The act of granting to principals the set of
permissions that comprise a role.

2+| *privilege*

| | A security attribute that may be assigned to
entities and that may be used to differentiate an entity’s right to
perform activities.

2+| *Provider*

| | The software component that contains
implementations of the policy configuration, and policy decision classes
defined by this specification.

2+| *reference-to-role mapping*

| | The component-scoped transformation of
component embedded role aliases into application-scoped role names. The
transformation is defined at application deployment and perhaps modified
by policy management.

2+| *role*

| a| . A named set of permissions that may be granted to principals.
. A principal that has been granted permissions or that is used as a privilege.

|===

[[a120]]
=== Assumptions

. The contract defined in this specifiction must be applicable to Jakarta EE 9 and future versions of the Jakarta EE platform.

. We are defining a contract to be satisfied by “standard” Java SE Policy providers. 

. Jakarta EE 9 platforms will be required to implement the contract defined by this specification. This contract will be a
required element of subsequent versions of the Jakarta EE platform.

. We do not expect to add new decision interfaces to Policy (JAAS or Java SE) to accomplish the work of this specification.

. Jakarta EE application roles will be modeled as collections of permissions that are granted to principals.

. A principal that is in a role is granted all the permissions of the collection. However, the converse is not true.
That is, a principal that has been granted all the permissions of a role is not necessarily in the role (as determined by
`isCallerInRole()`).

. This contract will shift the responsibility for performing all of the authorization decisions pertaining to a Jakarta
EE application to the policy provider. Accordingly, the following mappings will become the responsibility of the provider.
** permissions to roles
** principals to roles
** (Application embedded) role references to role names

. It is assumed that there are providers that are unable to enumerate all the permissions that pertain to a
subject/protection domain before returning from `Policy.getPermissions()`.

. Any interfaces that this contract defines to be used by containers and or container deployment tools to create policy
statements within a policy provider must be compatible with a module-at-a-time application deployment mechanism.

. Where the Jakarta Enterprise Beans or Jakarta Servlet specifications are incomplete or ambiguous in their
specification of authorization functionality, the contract defined in this document may require additional semantics. 
Additional or clarifying semantics will only be adopted by this specification based on their acceptance by the 
committers of the corresponding component specification.

. The Jakarta Enterprise Beans policy decisions performed by providers may require access to the arguments of the 
Enterprise Bean invocation and or (for entity beans) the container managed Enterprise Bean instance state.

[[a136]]
=== Requirements

. This contract must support providers that are unable to determine, before returning from `Policy.getPermissions()`, 
all the permissions that pertain to a subject/protection domain.

. Each Policy provider that satisfies this contract must perform or delegate to another provider all the permission
evaluations requested via its interface in the JRE; not just those made by the container to implement 
Jakarta EE security functionality.

. Each provider must export interfaces (defined by this contract) for use by containers and or container deployment
tools to create policy statements within the policy store of the provider. These interfaces must be used when an 
application or module is deployed in a container.

. Each provider must satisfy all of the authorization requirements of the Jakarta Enterprise Beans and 
Jakarta Servlet specifications corresponding to the target platform. The provider is not required to
satisfy the authorization requirements pertaining to any of the above specifications for which the target platform 
is not a compatible implementation.

. The evaluation of a permission corresponding to a resource must identify the context of the resource's use such that
different policy can be applied to a resource used in different contexts (that is, applications or instances of an application).

. In the case of Jakarta Servlet resources, the provider must be able to associate a distinct policy context with each
context root (including context roots created to support virtual hosting) hosted by the server.

. In protecting Jakarta Servlet resources, a provider must select the policy statements that apply to a request according to
the constraint matching and servlet mapping rules defined by the Jakarta Servlet specification.

. To support this contract in a Jakarta Servlet environment, a container or its deployment tools must create policy
statements as necessary to support Servlet’s “default role-ref semantic”.

. For a container to support this contract, it must execute in an environment controlled by a Java SE `SecurityManager`.
Containers may also execute in environments that are not controlled by a Java SE SecurityManager. 
<<a154>> defines changes to this contract that apply to containers running without a Java SE `SecurityManager`.

. Policy providers must perform the permission evaluations corresponding to container pre-dispatch decisions and
application embedded privilege tests (i.e `isUserInRole` and `isCallerInRole`) without requiring that containers 
establish particular values for any of the non-principal attributes of the one or more
`java.security.ProtectionDomain` objects that are the subject of the evaluation.

=== Non Requirements

. This specification does not require that containers
support server-side authentication module plug-ins for the purpose of
populating subjects with authorization provider specific principals.

. This specification does not require that subjects be
attributed with role principals as a result of authentication.

. This specification does not define or mandate a
specific policy language to be used by providers. Each provider must
define its own syntax, mechanisms, and administrative interfaces for
granting permissions to principals.

. The specification does not require that providers
support a policy syntax for granting to principals roles as collections
of permissions.

. Although the specification is focused on defining
permissions and policy for use by Jakarta EE containers, we make no
restrictions on the use of this information by other containers or
applications, or on support by containers or providers of other
permissions or policy.

. It is not the intent of this specification to extend or
modify the Jakarta EE authorization model to be equivalent to standard RBAC
models for access control.

[[a154]] 
=== Running Without a SecurityManager

The following list defines changes to this contract that apply to containers running without a Java SE
`SecurityManager`.

. The restrictions defined in <<a549>> need not be enforced. 
Also, the containers of the application server must not be denied permission to perform any operation that would have been
permitted in the presence of a `SecurityManager`.

. Such containers are not required (before dispatching a call) to associate an `AccessControlContext` with the call
thread (as otherwise required by <<a569>> and <<a616>>).

. When performing the operations defined in <<a727>> and in <<a736>>, such containers must not employ the
`SecurityManager.checkPermission` techniques defined in these sections.

. When using the `AccessController.checkPermission` technique of <<a736>>, the calling container must ensure that 
the principals of the caller are contained in the `AccessControlContext` associated with the thread on
which the call to `checkPermission` is made.

[[a160]]
=== Servlet or EJB only containers

The requirements of this specification that must be satisfied by a target platform that is a compatible
implementation of one but not both of the Jakarta Servlet and Jakarta Enterprise Beans specifications
are reduced as described in the next two sections.

=== Servlet Only Containers

A platform that is a compatible implementation of the Jakarta Servlet specification and that is not a compatible
implementation of the Jakarta Enterprise Beans specification must satisfy all of the requirements of this 
specification with the following exceptions:

. the policy configuration requirements defined in <<a512>> and in <<a516>>

. the policy enforcement requirements defined in <<a614>> and <<a622>>

. the policy context handler requirements defined in <<a719>>, and <<a723>>, and <<a725>>

=== EJB Only Containers

A platform that is is a compatible implementation of the Jakarta Enterprise beans specification and that is not a compatible
implementation of the Jakara Servlet specification must satisfy all of the requirements of this specification with the following 
exceptions:

. the policy configuration requirements defined in <<a271>> and in <<a276>>

. the policy enforcement requirements defined in <<a558>> and <<a574>>

. the policy context handler requirements defined in <<a721>>

Commit message:

Use Jakarta names instead of old accronyms
Signed-off-by: Jean-Louis Monteiro <jlmonteiro@tomitribe.com>

spec/src/main/asciidoc/chapters/1_overview.adoc, after:

== Overview

This specification defines a contract between Jakarta EE containers and authorization 
policy modules such that container authorization functionality can be provided as 
appropriate to suit the operational environment.

=== Introduction

The contract defined by this specification is divided into three subcontracts. Taken 
together, these subcontracts describe the installation and configuration of 
authorization providers such that they will be used by containers in performing their access
decisions. The three subcontracts are the <<a173>>, <<a232>>, and the <<a556>>.

[#fig:001] 
[[a76]]
image::authz-1.svg[caption="Figure {doc-part}-{counter:figure} ", reftext="Figure {doc-part}-{figure}", title="Policy Configuration and Enforcement Subcontracts", align="center"]

=== Terminology

[frame=none]
[grid=none]
[cols="20%,80%",options="noheader"] 
|===
2+| *Jakarta EE application*

| | A collection of Jakarta EE modules that must share a common principal-to-role-mapping

2+| *deploy (e.g. an application)*

| | The sequence of operations comprised of _completing the declaration_ of an application or module’s dependencies on
container facilities, _binding the declared dependencies_ to specific
mechanisms or features of an operational environment, _installing or distributing_ 
the application software and related configuration
information to one or more application servers, and _activating_ the
software such that it is available to service requests.

2+| *undeploy (e.g. an application)*

| | The combined process of _stopping_ an application and then _removing_ the software and configuration information
corresponding to the application or a module of the application from one or more application servers.

2+| *redeploy (e.g. a module of an application)*

| | The _repackaging_ of an application or module
to accommodate modification of implementation and or of declared
dependencies and or of the binding of declared dependencies to
mechanisms, combined with _undeploying_ a corresponding module or
application, followed by _redistribution_ and _activation_ of the modified
software and or configuration.

2+| *grant*

| | The act of assigning to entities the right to
perform a set of activities that is the subject of an authorization
decision (that is, a permission).

2+| *hostname*

| | The name of a logical host of an application
server, as may be used in the composition of a servlet policy context
identifier.


2+| [[a90]] *JAAS Policy interface*

| | The `javax.security.auth.Policy` abstract class.

2+| [[a92]] *JAAS Policy provider*

| | An instance of a class that implements the JAAS Policy interface.

2+| *permission*

| | Represents a set of activities (a set of one or more operations on some set of
one or more resources) that is the target of an authorization decision.

2+| *Policy Context*

| | The collection of policy statements within a
policy provider that effect access to the resources of one or more
deployed modules.

2+| *Policy Context Identifier*

| | A unique string value that identifies the
collection of policy statements corresponding to a policy context within
a policy provider.

2+| *policy statement*

| | A representation of the circumstances under
which the set of activities represented by a permission are to be
authorized.

2+| *excluded policy statement*

| | A representation of the decision not to
authorize a set of activities represented by a permission independent of
factors that might otherwise effect the outcome of the decision.

2+| *unchecked policy statement*

| | A representation of the decision to authorize
a set of activities represented by a permission independent of factors
that might otherwise effect the outcome of the decision.

2+| *principal*

| a| . (Java) A security attribute acquired as a result of authentication by entities that perform activities.
. An entity that performs activities.

2+| *principal-to-role mapping*

| | The act of granting to principals the set of
permissions that comprise a role.

2+| *privilege*

| | A security attribute that may be assigned to
entities and that may be used to differentiate an entity’s right to
perform activities.

2+| *Provider*

| | The software component that contains
implementations of the policy configuration, and policy decision classes
defined by this specification.

2+| *reference-to-role mapping*

| | The component-scoped transformation of
component embedded role aliases into application-scoped role names. The
transformation is defined at application deployment and perhaps modified
by policy management.

2+| *role*

| a| . A named set of permissions that may be granted to principals.
. A principal that has been granted permissions or that is used as a privilege.

|===

[[a120]]
=== Assumptions

. The contract defined in this specifiction must be applicable to Jakarta EE 9 and future versions of the Jakarta EE platform.

. We are defining a contract to be satisfied by “standard” Java SE Policy providers. 

. Jakarta EE 9 platforms will be required to implement the contract defined by this specification. This contract will be a
required element of subsequent versions of the Jakarta EE platform.

. We do not expect to add new decision interfaces to Policy (JAAS or Java SE) to accomplish the work of this specification.

. Jakarta EE application roles will be modeled as collections of permissions that are granted to principals.

. A principal that is in a role is granted all the permissions of the collection. However, the converse is not true.
That is, a principal that has been granted all the permissions of a role is not necessarily in the role (as determined by
`isCallerInRole()`).

. This contract will shift the responsibility for performing all of the authorization decisions pertaining to a Jakarta
EE application to the policy provider. Accordingly, the following mappings will become the responsibility of the provider.
** permissions to roles
** principals to roles
** (Application embedded) role references to role names

. It is assumed that there are providers that are unable to enumerate all the permissions that pertain to a
subject/protection domain before returning from `Policy.getPermissions()`.

. Any interfaces that this contract defines to be used by containers and or container deployment tools to create policy
statements within a policy provider must be compatible with a module-at-a-time application deployment mechanism.

. Where the Jakarta Enterprise Beans or Jakarta Servlet specifications are incomplete or ambiguous in their
specification of authorization functionality, the contract defined in this document may require additional semantics. 
Additional or clarifying semantics will only be adopted by this specification based on their acceptance by the 
committers of the corresponding component specification.

. The Jakarta Enterprise Beans policy decisions performed by providers may require access to the arguments of the 
Enterprise Bean invocation and or (for entity beans) the container managed Enterprise Bean instance state.

[[a136]]
=== Requirements

. This contract must support providers that are unable to determine, before returning from `Policy.getPermissions()`, 
all the permissions that pertain to a subject/protection domain.

. Each Policy provider that satisfies this contract must perform or delegate to another provider all the permission
evaluations requested via its interface in the JRE; not just those made by the container to implement 
Jakarta EE security functionality.

. Each provider must export interfaces (defined by this contract) for use by containers and or container deployment
tools to create policy statements within the policy store of the provider. These interfaces must be used when an 
application or module is deployed in a container.

. Each provider must satisfy all of the authorization requirements of the Jakarta Enterprise Beans and 
Jakarta Servlet specifications corresponding to the target platform. The provider is not required to
satisfy the authorization requirements pertaining to any of the above specifications for which the target platform 
is not a compatible implementation.

. The evaluation of a permission corresponding to a resource must identify the context of the resource's use such that
different policy can be applied to a resource used in different contexts (that is, applications or instances of an application).

. In the case of Jakarta Servlet resources, the provider must be able to associate a distinct policy context with each
context root (including context roots created to support virtual hosting) hosted by the server.

. In protecting Jakarta Servlet resources, a provider must select the policy statements that apply to a request according to
the constraint matching and servlet mapping rules defined by the Jakarta Servlet specification.

. To support this contract in a Jakarta Servlet environment, a container or its deployment tools must create policy
statements as necessary to support Servlet’s “default role-ref semantic”.

. For a container to support this contract, it must execute in an environment controlled by a Java SE `SecurityManager`.
Containers may also execute in environments that are not controlled by a Java SE SecurityManager. 
<<a154>> defines changes to this contract that apply to containers running without a Java SE `SecurityManager`.

. Policy providers must perform the permission evaluations corresponding to container pre-dispatch decisions and
application embedded privilege tests (i.e `isUserInRole` and `isCallerInRole`) without requiring that containers 
establish particular values for any of the non-principal attributes of the one or more
`java.security.ProtectionDomain` objects that are the subject of the evaluation.

=== Non Requirements

. This specification does not require that containers
support server-side authentication module plug-ins for the purpose of
populating subjects with authorization provider specific principals.

. This specification does not require that subjects be
attributed with role principals as a result of authentication.

. This specification does not define or mandate a
specific policy language to be used by providers. Each provider must
define its own syntax, mechanisms, and administrative interfaces for
granting permissions to principals.

. The specification does not require that providers
support a policy syntax for granting to principals roles as collections
of permissions.

. Although the specification is focused on defining
permissions and policy for use by Jakarta EE containers, we make no
restrictions on the use of this information by other containers or
applications, or on support by containers or providers of other
permissions or policy.

. It is not the intent of this specification to extend or
modify the Jakarta EE authorization model to be equivalent to standard RBAC
models for access control.

[[a154]] 
=== Running Without a SecurityManager

The following list defines changes to this contract that apply to containers running without a Java SE
`SecurityManager`.

. The restrictions defined in <<a549>> need not be enforced. 
Also, the containers of the application server must not be denied permission to perform any operation that would have been
permitted in the presence of a `SecurityManager`.

. Such containers are not required (before dispatching a call) to associate an `AccessControlContext` with the call
thread (as otherwise required by <<a569>> and <<a616>>).

. When performing the operations defined in <<a727>> and in <<a736>>, such containers must not employ the
`SecurityManager.checkPermission` techniques defined in these sections.

. When using the `AccessController.checkPermission` technique of <<a736>>, the calling container must ensure that 
the principals of the caller are contained in the `AccessControlContext` associated with the thread on
which the call to `checkPermission` is made.

[[a160]]
=== Jakarta Servlet or Jakarta Enterprise Beans only containers

The requirements of this specification that must be satisfied by a target platform that is a compatible
implementation of one but not both of the Jakarta Servlet and Jakarta Enterprise Beans specifications
are reduced as described in the next two sections.

=== Jakarta Servlet Only Containers

A platform that is a compatible implementation of the Jakarta Servlet specification and that is not a compatible
implementation of the Jakarta Enterprise Beans specification must satisfy all of the requirements of this 
specification with the following exceptions:

. the policy configuration requirements defined in <<a512>> and in <<a516>>

. the policy enforcement requirements defined in <<a614>> and <<a622>>

. the policy context handler requirements defined in <<a719>>, and <<a723>>, and <<a725>>

=== Jakarta Enterprise Beans Only Containers

A platform that is is a compatible implementation of the Jakarta Enterprise beans specification and that is not a compatible
implementation of the Jakarta Servlet specification must satisfy all of the requirements of this specification with the following
exceptions:

. the policy configuration requirements defined in <<a271>> and in <<a276>>

. the policy enforcement requirements defined in <<a558>> and <<a574>>

. the policy context handler requirements defined in <<a721>>
