spec/src/main/asciidoc/chapters/a_related-documents.adoc, before:

=== Related Documents

This specification refers to the following
documents. The terms used to refer to the documents in this
specification are included in brackets.

S. Bradner, “Key words for use in RFCs to
Indicate Requirement Levels,” RFC 2119, [Keywords] Harvard University,
March 1997

 _Java™ 2 Platform, Enterprise Edition
Specification Version 1.4_ [Java EE specification] Copyright 1999-2003,
Sun Microsystems, Inc. Available at _http://java.sun.com/j2ee/docs.html_
.

 _Java™ 2 Platform, Standard Edition, v1.4.0
API Specification_ [Java SE specification]. Copyright 1993-2003, Sun
Microsystems, Inc. Available at
_http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.4/docs/api/index.html_ .

 _Enterprise JavaBeans™ Specification, Version
2.1_ [EJB specification]. Copyright 1998-2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
Available at _http://java.sun.com/products/ejb_ .

 _Java™ Servlet Specification, Version 2.4_
[Servlet specification]. Copyright 1998-2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
Available at _http://java.sun.com/products/servlet_ .

 _Java™ Authentication and Authorization
Service_ (JAAS) 1.0 [JAAS specification]. Copyright 1999-2003, Sun
Microsystems, Inc. Available at _http://java.sun.com/products/jaas_ .

Commit message:

Cleaned Appendix A - related documents
Signed-off-by: arjantijms <arjan.tijms@gmail.com>

spec/src/main/asciidoc/chapters/a_related-documents.adoc, after:

[appendix]
== Related Documents

This specification refers to the following documents. The terms used to refer to the documents in this
specification are included in brackets.

_S. Bradner, “Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels,” RFC 2119, Harvard University, March 1997, [Keywords]_

_Jakarta EE 9 Specification [Jakarta EE 9 Specification], available at: https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-platform_

_Jakarta Servlet Specification, Version 5.0 [Jakarta Servlet Specification], available at: https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/servlet-api_

_Jakarta Enterprise Beans, Version 4.0 [Jakarta Enterprise Beans Specification], available at: _https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/ejb-api_

_Java™, Standard Edition, Version 8.0 API Specification [Java SE 8 Specification], available at: https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api_

_Java™ Authentication and Authorization Service_ (JAAS) [JAAS Specification], available at: https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/security/jaas/JAASRefGuide.html_
